A couple of videos ago, I told you that we use deployments because we can very easily update the version
image used by each of our different pods.
So for example, if we make a change to our post project and we rebuild the image, we might want to
redeploy our application and have our deployment run this new version to instead.
In this video, we're going to start to walk through two different ways of actually applying this update.
So in this video in particular, we're going to take a look at method number one for updating the image
used by a deployment.
You're not going to see method number one use very often in professional deployments.
And I'll tell you why in just a moment.
Let's first go through the series of steps and then we'll all describe exactly why you're not going
to see this used very often.
So step one, we're going to make a change to our project code.
Let's do that right away.
I'm going to open up my code editor and inside of my post project directory, I will find the indexed
file.
So we're going to imagine that we make some change to this project, maybe down here at the very bottom
at APT.
Listen right above that console log that says listing on 4000 I'll put in a console log of about version
20.
So we'll say that we are trying to deploy this new version, 20 of our code base.
So that's the change that we're going to make.
Once we made that changed, we're then going to rebuild our post image.
And when we rebuild the image, we're going to tag that image with some new version number.
To do so we'll go back to our terminal.
I'll change back into my post project directory and we will rebuild that image by running Docker.
Build t your docker ID posts then a colon and I'll put a new version number in here.
So for example, I can put in 005.
I'll imagine this is version five or something like that of my post project.
I'll then put a space and then the dot right there, remember that designates that we want to build
the image out of everything inside this post directory.
So I run that and now I've got ose 005.
So we've now got a new image with a appropriate image version tied to it.
So now the next thing we're going to do, we're going to find our deployment config file and we're going
to update the version of the image inside there.
So back inside my editor, I'll find the post config file.
And I'll update the image version right here to 005.
Well, then save this file.
And now we need to tell Kubernetes to use this new updated config file by just making a change to a
config file.
Nothing changes inside of our cluster.
Kubernetes is not actually aware that this file even exists.
Whenever we make a change to a config file, we have to feed it back into the cluster using that same
cube to apply command.
Whenever you apply a config file, Kubernetes is going to know whether this is a config file that has
already been fed into it before or if it's something brand new.
In this case, we have a config file that we've already fed in once, so Kubernetes is going to know
that we are trying to make a change to an existing object as opposed to creating a new object.
It's going to take a look at all the different config options.
It's going to see that the only thing that has changed inside of here is the version image or the image
of the version.
And so it's going to make that one single change to our existing deployment as opposed to creating a
new deployment or something like that.
So let's go back over to our terminal.
I'm going to change back into our infra eight's directory, which is where our deployment file is sitting.
And we will do a little apply with that file.
There we go.
You'll notice that it says as soon as we apply this thing that this deployment was configured.
You might recall that when we first created the deployment, it said that the deployment was created.
So we can definitely tell that Kubernetes understands that this is a config file related to a deployment
that already exists.
So rather than creating a new deployment, it configured or change the configuration of the one that
already exists.
So now we should be able to do a little bit deployments.
It looks like we have one pod running.
And if I do a cube, it'll get pods.
There's our newly created or newly restarted pod.
You'll notice that as an age of 32 seconds, which means that this pod was just created using the new
version of our image.
I should now be able to get logs out of this pod right here.
So I'll copy the pod name and do a little logs.
And then the name of the pod.
And now right here I'll see V 20, which means that our deployment or our new change right here was
just successfully deployed through the deployment.
Okay.
So that is method one.
Number one, very updating the image that is used by a deployment.
Now, at the start of the video, I told you that you're not going to see this used very frequently.
And the reason for that is that back inside of our config file, we are specifying a very precise version
right here.
The reason that this is a problem is that any time we want to make a change to our application or redeploy
our application, we would have to always open up this config file and make a change to that little
number right there.
Over time, you're going to see that these deployment files start to get really, really large.
And so we'd really would like to not have to open up this file very often and make changes to it, because
every single time we make a change to a file, there's always a possibility of adding in some kind of
error.
So it would be really great if we did not have to specify a version inside of here at all.
It'd be great if we could just somehow tell Kubernetes to always use the latest version of a given image.
That would be fantastic.
And that's what method number two is going to be based upon.
We're going to figure out a way to tell Kubernetes to use the latest version of an image.
And we're going to figure out a way to tell Kubernetes to automatically update itself or reset up our
deployment any time that version changes as well, or any time we create a new image as well.
So let's take a pause right here.
We'll take a look at method number two in just a moment.